What do you need to make computers do any job a human does - within our current understanding of what is involved in human skils?

There are four fields bound in a context of the dimension of time and 0, 1, 2 or 3 dimensions of space. These are vision, symbols, objects and sounds. These must be recognized and cross correlated where applicable across all fields. They can be both primitive or composite - though the boundry between these is grey.

Vision meams recognizing objects, clustering them across numberous dimesions (or clustering them and positioning them across the dimesions (the dimensions referred to here are of the object space not 1-3D)), and applying symbolic labels to these objects. This must be done at least as well as humans. Current tests that show rough parity in this task don't take as much context as humans would usually be able to leverage in order to far outstrip any computer. Once this task is mastered, it must be possible to do this on video and recognize, cluster and label actions, composite states and permutations (happy dog vs sad dog). 

Symbols usually mean words. Words must be recodgnized, definitions and or images referenced, the logical structure of the words clustered and made explicit, valid vs invalid usages recognized and translated into formal, database-manipulable structures. The reverse wherever possible must also be achievable (creating sentences generally).

Objects must be recognized through whatever sense, sight, verbal reference, sound, feel etc. The properties aof objects must be known, categorized and valid expectations created (pillow will not kill person if falls on head). The manipulation of objects must be effective. These include, grasping, moving, lifting, impact consequences etc.

Sounds must be recognized. Word sounds should be recognized as such and translated to symbols. Symbol strings must produce sound. Different voices should be recognized and generated. Intonation must be mastered for recognizing the effect on symbols and for generation with the level of fluency that would fool a competent speaker into thinking they are speaking to a person assuming content is not an issue. Besides symbols sound recognition and genration would apply to sound effects, music etc.

For these four fields correlations and specifically causal interactions must be known. In order to prove their use these patterns of causality or correlation must exceed that of a dedicated groups of human specialists. There must be proficiency at logical stratagems that can manipulate the resuluts from all these fields and their correlations. It is not sufficient to genearte exhastive search - even goal directed. Common heuristics for navigating the search space must be known as well as the ability to genrate new ones (by, say relaxing heurustic constraints or regognizing patterns in repeated activities.

Ine specific example must be mentioned explicitly despite the fact that it falls within the confines of the descriptions already given. Human psychology and the causal structure of human activity must be achieved at a higher level than above-average competent humans. Understanding of empotions and registered by facial expression as well as the correlates and results of such emotions must be a commonplace ability in all interaction or observation of human beings.

Another important example is the reading of human text and the extraction of all implications that a human competent in the field can an would naturally extract. A computer must be able to read a novel and discuss the plot, the characters, likely explanations of why they did what they did etc. It must be able to read an academic journal article and (1) relate the content to previously ingested content (2) extract the novelty (if there is such) in the thesis (3) produce implications of the content at the level of one skilled in the art or better. The results of all these must be accesible instantly upon a relevant query. Such a query's relevance may not be obvious. These two task sets are implied by the abilities described earlier in the document.

Another important example is robotics. If the competence in the fields of objects and causality are achieved together with those of vision and conceptual structures and their own correlations, a computer should be able todesign and build machines that can manipulate any objects or complete any physical task at the level of a skilled human operator or better.

If computers can do all this, what can they not do that a human can? Under what circumstances would a human be rationally preferred for employment to a computer?

The answer is that there are quite a few such circmstances. First of all the ability described here does not specify cost. If more space, power (energy) or resources are required to compete the task than that it takes to employ a human, there will be trade-offs. A human may value the task to be done by a human (such as physical intimacy, say, or the vaue of being served by another human). Finally it is assumed that computers are noth end-points of value. There is no need to produce certain tasks *for* a computer. If humans are the end-points of a value system we may want a human to make a decision because the human value of freedom is so instantiated.

2nd Aug 2015
